*Reasons behind this page!*

I changed jobs a number of years ago. Before that, I counted myself as a Splunk Queen. I was Splunk to the core!  It was not the only thing I knew ... but my new role was Kusto Query Language (KQL) heavy.  But I am a Threat Hunter, a silly thing like language and syntax is not going to stop me!

No way would it stop me.  I don't tend to let silly things like that stop me from getting my hands on cool stuff to analyse.  I did admit to the interviewing panel that I did not know the specifics of the language, but all my knowledge about threat hunting translated, so there would be no problem, I would be ready.

I got the job ... but before I even got the offer, I jumped headlong into KQL!  Wow, what a fascinating language, how well structured and thought out, what complexity, what variety.  It spoke to me the same way Splunk speaks to me.  I was in in love.

These are all YouTube videos that I have turned to at one point or another, and they are all part of my knowledge tapestry.

This is not my complete knowledge tapestry but a key part.  A key part not just of my past but my present, and future.  Free and cheap training offers much more value than taking a week or two off work to gain about 4 hours' worth of knowledge. And minus the stress of being forced to train for an exam ... yes, you train for an exam. I would rather skip the cert/exam and just be able to do the work. The proof is in the pudding, really.  Certs are for CVs only.

The thing is, when you do not know how to do something, sometimes the worst thing to turn around and say is, "I can't do that because I need a 9k SANS course", or words to that effect.  Yes, there are dangerous times when you have to admit you do not know, but you are not a doctor, nurse, or a lifesaver (plus any other roles where people might die if you do not do your trained job to the highest level) ... you are a SOC Analyst, a Threat Hunter, a Forensics Technician.  You are me, and I am you.

Mind you. I *was* that person at one point; it was a big ole SANS course and associated GIAC cert or nothing ... specific Vendor training for a specific product or nothing ... and you know what, they were good, they were worth it back then (circa the mid-2000s).  When it came to my buck, I spent some of it on SANS to keep up my certifications. I did try other vendor-neutral certification providers ... I spent a good wedge of moniez on courses that did bring me some knowledge, but not the value of the cash-moniez that were used.

I am not completely advocating "Fake it until you make it". However, I have seen many successful careers come from a bunch of over-excited, cocky little-S**t's who have no what they are doing and overcome some serious challenges.  Some of which made me step back and respect them.

At this initial draft - dated Sunday, the 23rd of June 2024 the content is in no particular order ... other than how it appears in my Tubes History do dah, Watch Later, Likes, blah, blah, you know the drill.

| YouTube Link | Notes and or comments |

